---
created_at: "2024-01-30T15:54:57-08:00"
tags: []
title: AI Resume Filter
---

Hiring is. There are way more out. Hiring is there are way more applicants than human time to remove their automation. is necessary companies don't have the resources. is necessary companies don't have the resources to review all the candidates but how do you do that in a way that is is more fair or besides fairness. is more fair or besides fairness, a higher signal for an organization. So all I have to do is press. So, all I have to do is press one button and that can be published as a blog post if I wanted to. So there you go. Yeah, that's an interesting idea. There you go. Yeah, that's an interesting idea. If you like that, that would be worth something. \[BLANK\_AUDIO\] How would you go without growing the network? I go fucking fine startups. I go fucking fine startups. - Sorry. - You're hiring me, you wanna try my tool? If it sucks then like I know that he isn't. I don't know if I use it. We got the screens, is it? So it like drops into someone's existing process. So it like drops into someone's existing process. Yeah. Yeah. like what would be your guarantee is that it like. like what would be your your guarantee is that it like when people hit the interview process their higher signal. process their higher signal. So you like keep track of that. The problem is you have 10,000 people apply for a job. The problem is you have 10,000 people apply for a job. You can't. You're literally randomly selecting people. people to review effectively in this people to review effectively. And then you can implement some like screening, filtering But then you end up in sick situations like me with snowflake. But then you end up in sick situations like me with snowflake where you miss the really high quality candidates that, you know, maybe they're fucking residents. candidates that, you know, maybe their fucking resume isn't in a format that your go see our screens right? It could be something that symbols that. It could be something as simple as that. Or it could be that it uses specific keyword. like when you start getting into Like when you start getting into like keyword matching for specific roles, it's It's like you're talking about garbage. It's like you're talking about garbage people applying. Like if you're just trying to hire for like full. I don't know if this would necessarily help because like I don't know if this would necessarily help because those are much easier at your higher retail person. you'd be specifically targeting like... you'd be specifically targeting like... - Yeah. - Yeah. \[BLANK\_AUDIO\]